lip-2: Oracle contract upgrade to v2 (#6)
lidofinance/lido-improvement-proposals: LIPS/lip-2.md

---
lip: 2
title: Oracle contract upgrade to v2
status: Work in progress
author: Denis Glotov
discussions-to: none
created: 2021-02-22
updated: 2021-02-24
---

# Oracle contract upgrade to v2

The following changes are to be made to the first mainnet version of the oracle contract.

> ## Change the meaning of 'quorum'.

Reviewer: Changing the meaning of quorum and allowing removing oracles under quorum are two different changes, should separate

Author: Ok, I updated it, please have a look.

only have 1 kind of report so we just make sure that its counter exceeded the quorum value.
`Algorithm.sol`, which used to find the majority element for the reporting, was completely removed.

This change does not impact fair weather operations at all; the only setting where it is inferior to
the origninal procedure is a very specific kind of theoretical long-term eth2 turbulence where eth2
finality makes progress but lags behind last slot and that lag is 24h+ for a long time. It's been
never observed in the testnets and experts on eth2 consensus say it's a very convoluted scenario. So
we decided to axe it, and if it happens in the wild (which it won't), we can upgrade oracle back to
handle it better.

The following contract storage variables are used to keep the information.

    bytes32 internal constant REPORTABLE_EPOCH_ID_POSITION =
        keccak256("lido.LidoOracle.reportableEpochId");
    bytes32 internal constant REPORTS_BITMASK_POSITION =
        keccak256("lido.LidoOracle.reoirtsBitMask");
    ReportKind[] private gatheredReportKinds;  // in place of gatheredEpochData mapping in v1

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that we're removing the report map <<insert the variable name>> and putting `ReportKind[] private gatheredReportKinds;` in its place in memory.  
```

Author: Fair point, added.

either a successful quorum or when some oracle reported later epoch.
    
    event BeaconReported(
        uint256 epochId,
        uint128 beaconBalance,
        uint128 beaconValidators,
        address caller
    )
    
Reports the data that the oracle pushed to the contract with `reportBeacon` call.
    
    event PostTotalShares(
         uint256 postTotalPooledEther,
         uint256 preTotalPooledEther,
         uint256 timeElapsed,
         uint256 totalShares)

Reports statistics data when the quorum happened and the resulting report was pushed to Lido. Here,
`totalShares` is grabbed from the Lido contract, see [Add calculation of staker rewards APR][3]
section above for other arguments.
         
    event AllowedBeaconBalanceAnnualRelativeIncreaseSet(uint256 value)
    event AllowedBeaconBalanceRelativeDecreaseSet(uint256 value)

Reports the updates of the threshold limits by the governance. 
See [Sanity checks the oracles reports by configurable values][4] section above for details.

    event QuorumCallbackSet(address callback);

Reports the updates of the quorum callback, [Callback function to be invoked on report pushes][5].

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

It can be reasonably argued that these events and getters belong to Lido app rather than an oracle app. We would agree to that in a vacuum, but the reality of the situation is that the ecosystem needs these events and getters to build upon, and we're not upgrading the core contract anytime soon. So we're taking a workaround and putting some code that best belongs elsewhere in the oracle.
```

Author: Good, added

---
lip: 2
title: Oracle contract upgrade to v2
status: Work in progress
author: Denis Glotov
discussions-to: none
created: 2021-02-22
updated: 2021-02-24
---

# Oracle contract upgrade to v2

The following changes are to be made to the first mainnet version of the oracle contract.

## Change the meaning of 'quorum'.

> In the first version, the quorum value denoted the minimum number of oracles needed to perform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the first version, the quorum value denoted the minimum number of oracles needed to successfully report
```

results.

> So now, the governance-controlled 'quorum' value means the minimum number of exactly the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proposed change is that the governance-controlled 'quorum' value means the minimum number of exactly the same
```

> reports needed to finalize this epoch and report this report to Lido.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reports needed to finalize this epoch and report this report to Lido. The reason for that change is that all non-byzantine oracles need to report the exact same value and if there are conflicting reports in the frame, it means some oracles are faulty or malicious. With an old system it took a majority of quiorum of faulty oracles to push their values (e.g. 2 out of 3), with new system it takes a full quorum of them (3 out of 3). 

```

  multiples more in case that the previous frame didn't reach the quorum.

:warning: It is important to note here, that we collect post/pre pair (not current/last), to avoid
the influence of new staking during the epoch.

The following contract storage variables are used to keep the information.

    bytes32 internal constant POST_COMPLETED_TOTAL_POOLED_ETHER_POSITION =
        keccak256("lido.LidoOracle.postCompletedTotalPooledEther");
    bytes32 internal constant PRE_COMPLETED_TOTAL_POOLED_ETHER_POSITION =
        keccak256("lido.LidoOracle.preCompletedTotalPooledEther");
    bytes32 internal constant LAST_COMPLETED_EPOCH_ID_POSITION =
        keccak256("lido.LidoOracle.lastCompletedEpochId");
    bytes32 internal constant TIME_ELAPSED_POSITION =
        keccak256("lido.LidoOracle.timeElapsed");

Public function was added to provide data for calculating the rewards of [stETH][2] holders.

    function getLastCompletedReportDelta()
        public view
        returns (
            uint256 postTotalPooledEther,
            uint256 preTotalPooledEther,
            uint256 timeElapsed
        )

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To calculate APR, use the following formula:

APR = (postTotalPooledEther - preTotalPooledEther)*secondsInYear/(preTotalPooledEther*timeElapsed)

```

on the individual report.

For this, we have added the following accessors and mutators:

    function getAllowedBeaconBalanceAnnualRelativeIncrease() public view returns(uint256)

    function getAllowedBeaconBalanceRelativeDecrease() public view returns(uint256)

    function setAllowedBeaconBalanceAnnualRelativeIncrease(uint256 value)
        public auth(SET_REPORT_BOUNDARIES)

    function setAllowedBeaconBalanceRelativeDecrease(uint256 value)
        public auth(SET_REPORT_BOUNDARIES)

And the logic of reporting to the Lido contract got a call to `_reportSanityChecks` that does the
following. It compares the `preTotalPooledEther` and `postTotalPooledEther` (see above) and

* if there is a profit or same, calculates the [APR][1], compares it with the upper bound. If was above,
  reverts the transaction with `ALLOWED_BEACON_BALANCE_INCREASE` code.
* if there is a loss, calculates relative decrease and compares it with the lower bound. If was
  below, reverts the transaction with `ALLOWED_BEACON_BALANCE_DECREASE` code.

## Callback function to be invoked on report pushes.

To provide the external contract with updates on report pushes (every time the quorum is reached

> among oracle daemons data), we provide the following setter and getter functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
among oracle daemons data), we provide the following setter and getter functions. It might be needed to implement some updates to the external contracts that should happen at the same tx the rebase happens (e.g. adjusting uniswap v2 pools to reflect the rebase).
```
